A NEW WASHINGTON POST/ABC
NEWS POLL SHOWS 60% OF
AMERICANS BELIEVE RUSSIA TRIED
TO INFLUENCE LAST YEAR'S
ELECTION, AND 41% BELIEVE THE
TRUMP CAMPAIGN INTENTIONALLY
AIDED THOSE EFFORTS.
THE POLL ALSO SHOWS PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S APPROVAL RATING HAS
DROPPED TO 36%.
DIG DEEPER INTO THOSE NUMBERS,
AND YOU'LL SEE AMERICA'S
PARTISAN DIVIDE.
TO DISCUSS THAT AND MORE,
"NEWSHOUR WEEKEND"'S JEFF
GREENFIELD IS HERE IN THE
STUDIO.
JEFF, THE CONVERSATIONS THAT
HAVE HAPPENED SINCE WE HAD THIS
REVELATION, DONALD TRUMP JR.
EXPOSING HIS OWN EMAILS SAYING,
"HERE'S THE MEETING," ETC.,
ETC., HOW DOES THAT PLAY WITH
TRUMP'S BASE?
>> IT'S AS IF IT DIDN'T MATTER.
AND THIS IS A CONSTANT.
WE HAVE BEEN TALKING ABOUT THIS
ALMOST LIKE... IT FEELS LIKE
ALMOST ON A WEEKLY BASIS.
IN THAT POLL, FEWER THAN ONE IN
TEN REPUBLICANS THINK THERE WAS
ANYTHING BOTHERSOME ABOUT THE
RUSSIA-TRUMP FAMILY CONNECTIONS.
WHAT THAT TELLS YOU IS THAT THEY
HAVE ACCEPTED TRUMP'S
FUNDAMENTAL ARGUMENT THAT IF YOU
SEE OR READ SOMETHING ABOUT ME
NEGATIVE ABOUT RUSSIA, IT'S FAKE
BY DEFINITION.
AND I THINK WHAT THAT MEANS IS
AS THE PRESS HAS MOVED FURTHER
AND FURTHER TO SAY, "THERE'S
SOMETHING HERE," WHAT YOU SEE IS
SOME CONSERVATIVE COLUMNISTS,
LIKE CHARLES KRAUTHAMMER, SAYING
"YEAH, THIS IS SERIOUS."
BUT THEY NEVER WERE FOR TRUMP
IN THE FIRST PLACE.
IF YOU LOOK AT HANNITY, "FOX
AND FRIENDS," AND BREITBART,
AND THAT POLL NUMBER, WHAT
YOU SEE IS AMONG TRUMP'S REAL
SUPPORTERS, THEY JUST AREN'T
BUYING THAT ANYTHING HAPPENED
HERE.
>> Sreenivasan: CAN ANYTHING
CHANGE THAT?
>> YOU KNOW, IN A NORMAL WORLD,
IN A NORMAL POLITICAL WORLD I'D
BE KIND OF CONFIDENT SAYING,
"YEAH, IF THE REPUBLICANS IN
CONGRESS BEGIN TO REALLY GET
TOUGH ON TRUMP, SAY, "WHAT'S
GOING ON HERE?
WE'RE REALLY BOTHERED BY THIS.
THIS IS A HOSTILE FOREIGN
POWER, WHAT'S GOING ON?"
THAT THAT WOULD HAVE AN IMPACT
AMONG THE BASE.
BUT ONE OF THE CURIOUS THINGS
WE'RE SEEING IS THAT AMONG
TRUMP'S SUPPORTERS, THEY'RE NOT
ALL THAT HAPPY WITH THE
REPUBLICANS IN CONGRESS ANYWAY.
YOU SEE DECLINING POLL NUMBERS
ABOUT WHAT REPUBLICANS THINK OF
THE REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL
LEADERS, YOU'VE SEEN SOME
REALLY SHARP ATTACKS ON THE
PART OF BREITBART AND SOME OF
THE RADIO PERSONALITIES LIKE
RUSH LIMBAUGH AND SEAN HANNITY,
SAYING, "YOU KNOW, YOU GUYS
AREN'T FIGHTING HARD ENOUGH, YOU
MIGHT BE RAISING TAXES ON US,"
THEY ARE NOT BLAMING TRUMP.
SO IF THE REPUBLICANS BEGIN TO
SAY IN CONGRESS, "THIS RUSSIA
THING IS BOTHERING US," I'M NOT
SURE THAT TRUMP PEOPLE ARE GOING
TO TAKE THAT AS AN OCCASION TO
LEAVE THE RESERVATION.
>> Sreenivasan: LET'S TALK A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT HEALTH CARE,
WHICH IS IN THE NEWS TODAY.
IT LOOKS LIKE IT'S GOING TO BE
POSTPONED AT LEAST ANOTHER
WEEK.
IF IT DOESN'T COME UP FOR A
VOTE, OR IF IT COMES UP FOR A
VOTE AND DOESN'T PASS, ANY
CONSEQUENCE FOR THE PRESIDENT?
>> FOR TRUMP?
SEE PREVIOUS ANSWER.
IN THE NON-TRUMP UNIVERSE, IF
A PRESIDENT RUNS ON A KEY
PROMISE-- "I'M GOING TO REPEAL
AND REPLACE THIS TERRIBLE LAW"
AND IT FAILS, IT WOULD CLOBBER
HIM.
THAT'S WHAT HAPPENED TO CLINTON.
WHEN HIS HEALTH CARE PLAN
FAILED, A YEAR LATER THEY LOST
THE CONGRESS, THE DEMOCRATS.
ONCE AGAIN, AND THIS ONE, I
THINK, IS REALLY SOMETHING WE'VE
NEVER SEEN BEFORE, BECAUSE
DONALD TRUMP IS NOT SEEN AS A
LEGISLATIVE MASTER, NOT KEEN ON
THE DETAILS, IN FACT WE'VE HAD
REPUBLICANS IN MEDIA KIND OF
POLITE IN SAYING HE DOESN'T
KNOW MUCH OR CARE MUCH WHAT'S
IN THE BILL.
HE HAS SAID GIVE ME SOMETHING
AND I'LL SIGN IT.
SO IF IT WERE TO FAIL, WHO DO
THE TRUMP FOLKS BLAME?
THE PRESIDENT OR DO THEY BLAME
THE CONGRESSIONAL LEADERSHIP?
THAT'S WHERE I THINK THE FALLOUT
WILL HAPPEN.
>> Sreenivasan: JEFF
GREENFIELD, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> OKAY.